---
title: Configuration
description: Disambiguation page for configuration files.
published: true
date: 2022-07-18T00:05:09.687Z
tags: config
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2022-07-17T16:49:12.919Z
---

# Configuring mcMMO

Default config files will be generated by default when you first install the plugin. To reset a config file back to its default values you can simply delete it, and McMMO will put in the default files next time you restart the plugin.

This page will summarize all config files, and you can simply click the file name to view more detailed information about it.

All config files are located in `/plugins/mcMMO`. All changes require a restart to take effect. Reloading is NOT supported!

Default config files can be found [on GitHub](https://github.com/mcMMO-Dev/mcMMO/tree/master/src/main/resources).

## Configuration Files

Here is the list of all configuration files.

### Main Configuration File

- [`config.yml`](/config/config) - Main mcMMO configuration.

### Additional Configuration

- [`advanced.yml`](/config/advanced) - Advanced configuration.
- [`chat.yml`](/config/chat) - Settings for the chat channels in mcMMO.
- [`child.yml`](/config/child) - mcMMO child skill configuration.
- [`coreskills.yml`](/config/coreskills) - This file includes a few settings for each skill in mcMMO.
- [`experience.yml`](/config/experience) - Experience configuration.
- [`fishing_treasures.yml`](/config/fishing-treasures) - Settings for Fishing Treasures / Shake Treasures.
- [`hidden.yml`](/config/hidden)
- [`itemweights.yml`](/config/itemweights) - Item Weights configuration
- [`persistent_data.yml`](/config/persistent-data) - This config allows servers to change which data is persistent.
- [`potions.yml`](/config/potions) - Settings for Concoctions.
- [`repair.vanilla.yml`](/config/repair-vanilla) - Repair configuration.
- [`salvage.vanilla.yml`](/config/salvage-vanilla) - Salvage configuration.
- [`skillranks.yml`](/config/skillranks) - This file defines the rank level requirements for a subskill.
- [`sounds.yml`](/config/sounds) - Sound configuration.
- [`treasures.yml`](/config/treasures) - Settings for Excavation's Archaeology

There is an additional `upgrades_overhaul.yml`, do NOT edit this file as it is used for data storage purposes!

## Notes & Tips

mcMMO configuration files are in a format known as YAML.

YAML expects entries to have 4 spaces in front of them (not tabs).

You can check if your file is valid YAML by using this 3rd party site → [YAML Lint](https://www.yamllint.com/)

Keep in mind, just because a file is valid YAML does not mean the entries in the config file are valid.

At start-up mcMMO will check the config file for any illegal values and shut down mcMMO if it finds any. Pay attention to your server log as mcMMO is quite verbose when it finds invalid keys in the configuration files.

If config files do not exist mcMMO will copy default versions from within the `mcMMO.jar`.

If you update mcMMO and we add new settings to the config file, we will add those into your existing config files for you.